Hello there, human! 

This is a Blender 4 add-on called Alva Sorcerer. Sorcerer is primarily intended for theatrical lighting designers who wish to separate the art from the technicals. All public-facing Alva software is designed with the artist in mind, not the technician. As a result, every UI decision only has one goal to satisfy: does this make it easier or harder to get the artistic vision to the stage? This is measured by the Coefficient of Design Drag (DDC). 

To provide the lowest possible DDC, Sorcerer deleted the concept of selecting lights. In all other lighting control softwares and consoles at the amateur through professional level, the user must select a light or group before manipulating a parameter to an original value. To change any parameter to any new value on any light, the user must complete two steps: select, then manipulate. The user is only allowed one controller and that controller may only control one selection in one way at one time. The first step in drastically reducing DDG is identifying the most fundamental, repetitive principles introducing drag. The principle is this: the amount of time needed to make any new change is doubled 70% of the time because the user must select before manipulating to an original, unstored value. Why don't consoles provide multiple controllers? Why not a controller for each group? Simple. Clutter. Efficiency.

Software designed with only the artist in mind does not see providing the artist instantaneous access to control as clutter or as inneffective use of space. However, to provide instantaneous access to many controls at once, a User Interface (UI) must not overwhelm the user with information, and a UI must strive to fill the screen with as little irrelevant pixels as possible, Irrelevant Pixel Count Index (IPCI). For this reason, a button that can serve its purpose without increasing DDC being drawn with 20 pixels by 20 pixels may not be programmed to be drawn with 21 pixels by 21 pixels. Because Sorcerer is designed exclusively for a personal computer, not as console software/firmware, 100% of useless pixels encounter the chopping block.

Alva Theaters believes that the user is the best judge of what controllers are needed at what times and on what screens. That is why Sorcerer uses node-based controllers. Node-based controllers can be placed by the user anywhere on screen and resized as if they are physical, tangible objects on a desk that can be brushed aside, repositioned, put into a folder, colored, labeled, and collapsed at the will of the user. Individual parameters can toggled on and off for individual nodes. There are nodes that control groups, other nodes that control those nodes, armies of those nodes can be collapsed into node groups, those node groups then can be duplicated, and there are nodes that can control specific nodes within the node group while the node group is collapsed into a small rectangle. All links between nodes are made visually with noodle connectors. In addition to normal group controller nodes, there are mixer nodes with their own heirarchies. These nodes mix multiple versions of the same parameter type across a group. Each version of the parameter is instantly accessible to the user whenever the node is on screen. 



To use this software, you must download and install a recent version of Blender from blender.org. Currently, the exact url to go to is:

https://www.blender.org/download/

If you found the correct download file, you should be able to double-click it and your operating system should walk you through the install process smoothly.

Once you have Blender downloaded and installed, you will need to go to User Preferences to tell Blender to run Sorcerer. On the top left, Edit > Preferences. Then, at the top, press the “Add-ons” tab button. Then, go to the bottom left corner and press “Install”. Then, find the compressed “Sorcerer” folder. Ensure the compressed/zipped folder is still named Sorcerer with no spaces, capital letters, or special characters. Click that in the Blender add-on window and it should pop up as an add-on. Go ahead and check the checkbox to enable the add-on and read the warnings. Essentially, it just lets you know that it isn’t necessarily safe to have this software actually running during a real show with an audience, that it’s far better to store the data created by this software locally on the console. There are many automation tools in Sorcerer to help you with that. Here is that formal warning:

Warning: For optimal performance and reliability during live shows, it's advised to transfer all timings created with this software directly to the console's internal memory prior to the event. While this add-on is a valuable tool for setting up and integrating into an FOH setup, it's not recommended to have Blender/Sorcerer actively running and sending OSC commands during the live show itself. Follow best practices for a seamless experience.

If installing Sorcerer did not work as expected and you can’t figure out what’s going on, Googling it may help (type in keywords for general Blender add-on installation problems). If that doesn’t work, contact Alva Theaters at help@alvatheaters.com.

Once you have Sorcerer installed, navigate either to 3D view, Video Editing, the Shader Editor, or the Sorcerer Nodes view. 

Now, follow intuition, tooltips, and the demo videos/streams on Alva Theaters’ YouTube channel to figure out what to do with the software. If none of that helps, either contact Alva by email at help@alvatheaters.com, by phone at (855) 512-2700, or, maybe you’ll be forced to read the documentation. It is our goal however to create software that is so intuitive that it doesn’t need documentation/instructions. If you feel the need to vent about something you think is needlessly confusing and/or dumb, send us an email at thisisdumb@alvatheaters.com. You can also ask our Not a Dumb Chatbot.
